# CS528 Project

# <b> Team members : Ashish Bharti , Pratyush R. , B. Vijesh R. Bhat

## Problem Statement

Algorithmic implementation of Task Scheduling in Edge Server Systems with limited Solar Energy and Infinite Batteries

Given the M edge servers each equipped with a solar panel of capacity S and a battery with infinite capacity.

Assume a day has T time slots (for example T=24, 24 hours). Power generation for different time slot jth) of the day at each edge server (ith) is given as S[i][j] and S[i][j] ≤ S. 

The number of tasks that arrives at edge servers (ith) at different time slot (jth) of the day is given as D[i][j]. 

The values of S[i][j] and D[i][j] for all i and j are available at time 0. 

We know how much power generated at each edge server and how many number of tasks to arrive at each servers for all the time slot.

The task needs to be executed in the same time slot and if the task executed it consumes a unit (or 1) amount utilization. 

We may choose to execute the task or not execute the task in the time slot. 

The amount of power consumed in a time slot at an edge server is cube of the number of tasks executed in the time slot in that edge server. 

The compute capacity of each edge server is infinite.

In a time slot, we may choose to store some power generated by the solar at the edge server or we may utilize some already stored power to execute some extra tasks or may not do anything with the battery. 

If we have stored power in the battery in earlier slots at the edge server then only we can use the battery up to the stored amount in the current slot.

The task can be migrated to another edge server without any cost. 

Battery power cannot be transferred from one edge server to another server.

Design an efficient approach to maximize the total number of task executions for the entire day by all the edge servers.

# Task Scheduling Algorithm

---

## Platform: Any linux based machine

## Compiler: GCC >= 9.0.0 (GNU Compiler Collection)

---

## How to Compile and Run the Code

1. **Clone the Repository:**
   
   git clone https://github.com/heckop/CS528_Project.git

2. Navigate to CS528_Project directory

3. Run the command "g++ Edge_System_task_Scheduling.cpp"

4. Run the command ./a.out


## <b>Manual Testing

    If you choose to perform manual testing:
        Enter 2 when prompted to generate random test cases or manual testing.
        Provide input values as prompted (number of servers, number of slots, power range).
        Enter the battery generation and task arrival values for each server and slot.
        The program will execute the task scheduling algorithm and display the results.

## <b>Generating Random Test Cases

    If you choose to generate random test cases:
        Enter 1 when prompted to generate random test cases or manual testing.
        Enter the number of test cases you wish to generate.
        The program will generate random input values, execute the task scheduling algorithm for each test case, and save the input data in CSV files.

## <b> To perform visualisation of the result
    
    The CSV files will be generated automatically for both random test case and manual test case
    The user needs to change the input of the jupyter notebook where the csv file is being read.
    After that, just run all the cells and the analysis of the data will be shown.
    Bar graphs and heatmaps are used for visualisation

## <b> Additional Notes

    The code utilizes C++ and standard libraries.
    Make sure you have GCC installed on your Linux system to compile the code.
    The code may be compatible with other Linux distributions and compilers.

